pages/10.cookbook/02.twig-recipes/docs.md, before:

---
title: Twig Recipes
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

This page contains an assortment of problems and their respective solutions related to Twig templating.

1. [List the last 5 recent blog posts](#list-the-last-5-recent-blog-posts)
1. [List the blog bosts for the year](#list-the-blog-posts-for-the-year)
1. [Displaying a translated month](#displaying-a-translated-month)
1. [Displaying page content without summary](#displaying-page-content-without-summary)
1. [Hiding the email to spam bots](#hiding-the-email-to-spam-bots)
1. [Picking a random item from a translated array](#picking-a-random-item-from-a-translated-array)

### List the last 5 recent blog posts

##### Problem:

You want to display the last 5 blog posts in a sidebar of your site so a reader can see recent blog activity.

##### Solution:

Simply find the `/blog` page, obtain it's children, order them by date in a descending order, and then get the first 5 to display in a list:

```
<ul>
{% for post in page.find('/blog').children.order('date', 'desc').slice(0, 5) %}
    <li class="recent-posts">
        <strong><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></strong>
    </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

when using within pages make sure you add following configuration to the page header:

```
twig_first: true
process:
    twig: true
```


### List the blog posts for the year

##### Problem:

You want to display all the blog posts that have occurred in this calendar year.

##### Solution:

Simply find the `/blog` page, obtain it's children, filter by appropriate `dateRange()`, and order them by date in a descending order:

```
<ul>
{% set this_year = "now"|date('Y') %}
{% for post in page.find('/blog').children.dateRange('01/01/' ~ this_year, '12/31/' ~ this_year).order('date', 'desc') %}
    <li class="recent-posts">
        <strong><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></strong>
    </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

### Displaying a translated month

##### Problem:

This has come up a few times and also is used in the [Multilang Skeleton](https://github.com/getgrav/grav-skeleton-multilang-site) where a user wants to display the current month translated in a particular language.  For this to work, it's assumed you have your [multi-language site setup and configured](../../content/multi-language) as outlined in the documentation.

##### Solution:

Let's also assume you have some language translations setup in your `user/languages/` folder called `en.yaml` that contains the entry:
```
MONTHS_OF_THE_YEAR: [January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December]
```

And in `fr.yaml`:
```
MONTHS_OF_THE_YEAR: [Janvier, Février, Mars, Avril, Mai, Juin, Juillet, Août, Septembre, Octobre, Novembre, Décembre]
```

Then you have your Twig:

```
<li>
    <a href='{{ post.url }}'><aside class="dates">{{ 'MONTHS_OF_THE_YEAR'|ta(post.date|date('n') - 1) }} {{ post.date|date('d') }}</aside></a>
    <a href='{{ post.url }}'>{{ post.title }}</a>
</li>
```

This makes use of the Grav custom Twig filter `|ta` that stands for **Translate Array**.  In the English version, the output might be something like:

```
An Example Post                  July 2015
```

And the French:

```
Un exemple d’article             Juillet 2015
```

### Displaying page content without summary

##### Problem:

You want to display the content of a page without the summary at top.

##### Solution:

Use the  `slice` filter to remove the summary from the page content:

```
{% set content = page.content|slice(page.summary|length) %}
{{ content }}
```


### Hiding the email to spam bots

##### Problem:

You want to hide the email from spam bots

##### Solution:

Enable Twig processing in the page header:

```
process:
    twig: true
```

Then use the `safe_email` Twig filter:

```html
<a href="mailto:{{'your.email@server.com'|safe_email}}">
  Email me
</a>
```

### Picking a random item from a translated array

##### Problem:

You want to pick a random item from an array translated in a particular language.  For this to work, it's assumed you have your [multi-language site setup and configured](../../content/multi-language) as outlined in the documentation.

##### Solution:

Let's also assume you have some language translations setup in your `user/languages/` folder called `en.yaml` that contains the entry:

```
FRUITS: [Banana, Cherry, Lemon, Lime, Strawberry, Raspberry]
```

And in `fr.yaml`:

```
FRUITS: [Banana, Cerise, Citron, Citron Vert, Fraise, Framboise]
```

Then you have your Twig:

```
{% set langobj  = grav['language'] %}
{% set curlang  = langobj.getLanguage() %}
{% set fruits   = langobj.getTranslation(curlang,'FRUITS',true) %}
<span data-ticker="{{ fruits|join(',') }}">{{ random(fruits) }}</span>
```

Commit message:

Adding a way to have {{page.summary}} without tags
Adding a solution [to this issue](https://github.com/getgrav/grav/issues/819) for other noob users like me

pages/10.cookbook/02.twig-recipes/docs.md, after:

---
title: Twig Recipes
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

This page contains an assortment of problems and their respective solutions related to Twig templating.

1. [List the last 5 recent blog posts](#list-the-last-5-recent-blog-posts)
1. [List the blog bosts for the year](#list-the-blog-posts-for-the-year)
1. [Displaying a translated month](#displaying-a-translated-month)
1. [Displaying page content without summary](#displaying-page-content-without-summary)
1. [Hiding the email to spam bots](#hiding-the-email-to-spam-bots)
1. [Picking a random item from a translated array](#picking-a-random-item-from-a-translated-array)

### List the last 5 recent blog posts

##### Problem:

You want to display the last 5 blog posts in a sidebar of your site so a reader can see recent blog activity.

##### Solution:

Simply find the `/blog` page, obtain it's children, order them by date in a descending order, and then get the first 5 to display in a list:

```
<ul>
{% for post in page.find('/blog').children.order('date', 'desc').slice(0, 5) %}
    <li class="recent-posts">
        <strong><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></strong>
    </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

when using within pages make sure you add following configuration to the page header:

```
twig_first: true
process:
    twig: true
```


### List the blog posts for the year

##### Problem:

You want to display all the blog posts that have occurred in this calendar year.

##### Solution:

Simply find the `/blog` page, obtain it's children, filter by appropriate `dateRange()`, and order them by date in a descending order:

```
<ul>
{% set this_year = "now"|date('Y') %}
{% for post in page.find('/blog').children.dateRange('01/01/' ~ this_year, '12/31/' ~ this_year).order('date', 'desc') %}
    <li class="recent-posts">
        <strong><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></strong>
    </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

### Displaying a translated month

##### Problem:

This has come up a few times and also is used in the [Multilang Skeleton](https://github.com/getgrav/grav-skeleton-multilang-site) where a user wants to display the current month translated in a particular language.  For this to work, it's assumed you have your [multi-language site setup and configured](../../content/multi-language) as outlined in the documentation.

##### Solution:

Let's also assume you have some language translations setup in your `user/languages/` folder called `en.yaml` that contains the entry:
```
MONTHS_OF_THE_YEAR: [January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December]
```

And in `fr.yaml`:
```
MONTHS_OF_THE_YEAR: [Janvier, Février, Mars, Avril, Mai, Juin, Juillet, Août, Septembre, Octobre, Novembre, Décembre]
```

Then you have your Twig:

```
<li>
    <a href='{{ post.url }}'><aside class="dates">{{ 'MONTHS_OF_THE_YEAR'|ta(post.date|date('n') - 1) }} {{ post.date|date('d') }}</aside></a>
    <a href='{{ post.url }}'>{{ post.title }}</a>
</li>
```

This makes use of the Grav custom Twig filter `|ta` that stands for **Translate Array**.  In the English version, the output might be something like:

```
An Example Post                  July 2015
```

And the French:

```
Un exemple d’article             Juillet 2015
```


### Displaying page summary without formatting

##### Problem:

You want to display the summary of a page without the paragraph tag (`<p></p>`).

##### Solution:

Use the  `striptags` filter to remove the tags from the summary:

```
<h5>{{ page.summary|striptags}}</h5>

```


### Displaying page content without summary

##### Problem:

You want to display the content of a page without the summary at top.

##### Solution:

Use the  `slice` filter to remove the summary from the page content:

```
{% set content = page.content|slice(page.summary|length) %}
{{ content }}
```


### Hiding the email to spam bots

##### Problem:

You want to hide the email from spam bots

##### Solution:

Enable Twig processing in the page header:

```
process:
    twig: true
```

Then use the `safe_email` Twig filter:

```html
<a href="mailto:{{'your.email@server.com'|safe_email}}">
  Email me
</a>
```

### Picking a random item from a translated array

##### Problem:

You want to pick a random item from an array translated in a particular language.  For this to work, it's assumed you have your [multi-language site setup and configured](../../content/multi-language) as outlined in the documentation.

##### Solution:

Let's also assume you have some language translations setup in your `user/languages/` folder called `en.yaml` that contains the entry:

```
FRUITS: [Banana, Cherry, Lemon, Lime, Strawberry, Raspberry]
```

And in `fr.yaml`:

```
FRUITS: [Banana, Cerise, Citron, Citron Vert, Fraise, Framboise]
```

Then you have your Twig:

```
{% set langobj  = grav['language'] %}
{% set curlang  = langobj.getLanguage() %}
{% set fruits   = langobj.getTranslation(curlang,'FRUITS',true) %}
<span data-ticker="{{ fruits|join(',') }}">{{ random(fruits) }}</span>
```
